# v4.0.0 ~ vscode-liquid

This version ships with **breaking changes** and requires that you to align with new configuration. This is an important update as it will be the last change you will need to undertake relating to configurations in preparation for the Liquify supersede. The next major release of the extension will be Liquify which means all future features will up-streamed to that project.

### See [this gist](https://gist.github.com/panoply/c371a90df35171f341b6cc5d7dccc312) for the quickfix upgrade guide.

# Breaking Changes

Workspace and `.liquidrc` file settings now use a new definition structure for formatting configuration. There is no backwards compatibility, so you can either update to **3.4.0** or continue using **3.2.2**. Below is the **breaking changes** that ship in this release.

> **TLDR**
> No problems fam, see this [gist](https://gist.github.com/panoply/c371a90df35171f341b6cc5d7dccc312).

### Changed Rule Definitions

The new configurations are expressed using different structures. Depending on how you define settings, be it within a `.liquidrc` file or from within a`.vscode/settings.json` file, beautification rules have changed. See the below examples of the new configuration structures:

### Updating a `.liquidrc` File

For developers who leverage a `.liquidrc` file for beautification rules, the new structure requires you to nest rules under a `format` key property.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th width="500px"> OLD CONFIGURATION </th>
  <th width="500px">NEW CONFIGURATION  </th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>

<td>

```jsonc
{
  //  "liquid.format.wrap": 0,
  //  "liquid.format.crlf": false,
  //  "liquid.format.endNewLine": false,
  //  "liquid.format.indentSize": 2,
  //  "liquid.format.preserveLine": 3,
  //  "liquid.format.commentIndent": false,
  //  "liquid.format.preserveComment": false,
  //  "liquid.format.markup": {},
  //  "liquid.format.script": {},
  //  "liquid.format.style": {},
  //  "liquid.format.json": {},
}
```

</td>

<td>

```jsonc
{
  "format": {
    "ignore": [],
    "wrap": 0,
    "crlf": false,
    "endNewLine": false,
    "indentSize": 2,
    "preserveLine": 3,
    "liquid": {}, // New! Liquid specific format rules
    "markup": {},
    "json": {},
    "style": {},
    "script": {}
  }
}
```

</td>

</tr>
</body>
</table>

### Updating Workspace Settings

For developers who use workspace settings (`.vscode/settings.json`) for defining beautification options. You will need to move configuration to the `liquid.format.rules` object.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th width="500px"> OLD CONFIGURATION </th>
  <th width="500px">NEW CONFIGURATION  </th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>

<td>

```jsonc
{
  // "liquid.format.wrap": 0,
  // "liquid.format.crlf": false,
  //  "liquid.format.endNewLine": false,
  //  "liquid.format.indentSize": 2,
  //  "liquid.format.preserveLine": 3,
  //  "liquid.format.commentIndent": false,
  //  "liquid.format.preserveComment": false,
  //  "liquid.format.markup": {},
  //  "liquid.format.script": {},
  //  "liquid.format.style": {},
  // "liquid.format.json": {},
}
```

</td>

<td>

```jsonc
{
  "liquid.format.rules": {
    "wrap": 0,
    "crlf": false,
    "endNewLine": false,
    "indentSize": 2,
    "preserveLine": 3,
    "liquid": {},
    "markup": {},
    "json": {},
    "style": {},
    "script": {}
  }
}
```

</td>

</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Deprecated the `liquid.settings.target` workspace option

The `liquid.settings.target` option was deprecated and is no longer supported. Editor settings will default to the workspace `.vscode/settings.json` file and if one is not present in the project then the global (User Settings JSON) file will be used.

### Deprecated the `package.json` prettify config option

In version **v3.0.0** an additional configuration method was made available which allowed you to define formatting rules in a `package.json` file using a `prettify` property. As of version **3.4.0** this is no longer supported. This was experimental. Option definitions within package.json files will return in Liquify, but under a different field value.

### Deprecated the `liquid.format.enable` workspace option

As per https://github.com/panoply/vscode-liquid/issues/132 the `liquid.format.enable` setting is no longer supported. To enable formatting on save within Liquid files, you will ne provide the following vscode workspace settings:

```jsonc
{
  "[liquid]": {
    "editor.formatOnSave": true,
    "editor.defaultFormatter": "sissel.shopify-liquid"
  }
}
```

# New! File Associated Completions

As of version **3.4.0** users have even more essential features available when choosing this extension. Support for file associated completions are now available! Using the `files` option available in both the `.liquidrc` or workspace `.vscode/settings.json` you can provide file path reference to project associated files. When you provide references, then completion support is made available for the related definition.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th width="500px">

Using a `.liquidrc` file

</th>
<th width="500px">

Using workspace `.vscode/settings.json` file

</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```jsonc
{
  "engine": "shopify",  // set engine to shopify
  "files": {
    "locales": "",     // eg: ./path/en.default.json
    "settings": "",    // eg: ./path//settings_data.json
    "snippets": [],    // eg: ["./snippets/*"]
    "sections": [],    // eg: ["./sections/*"]
  }
}
```

</td>

<td>

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```jsonc
{

  "liquid.engine": "shopify",

  "liquid.files.locales": "",
  "liquid.files.settings": "",
  "liquid.files.snippets": [],
  "liquid.files.sections": [],

}
```

</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Locale Completion Support

This release provides locale completion support. This is achieved by providing a project relative path to the default locale file used by your theme. When defined, the extension will provide locale completions in translation object token expressions. Locale completions will be triggered in when a quotation character is detected following output token delimiters, eg: `{{ ' }}` or `{{ " }}`. In addition, the `| t ` filter will be inserted automatically when none is detected.

### Settings Completion Support

This release provides `settings_schema.json` completion support. This is achieved by providing a project relative path to the location of your `settings_data.json` file used by your theme. When defined, the extension will provide completions on the `settings.*` object in Liquid tag and output tokens.

### Snippet Completion Support

This release provides snippet file completion support. This is achieved by defining project relative path/s to directories that contain snippets or alternatively you can provide globs matches. Snippets will be shown for in `{% render '' %}` tag and will also allow you to quick open files.

# Prettify Improvements

This release is now using version `0.5.5.beta.1` of [Prettify](). Huge improvements pertaining to CSS coming along with the most stable markup (html + liquid) release to date. Test cases against 100+ different code sample structures has move Prettify to a safe level wherein code output respects input intent, meaning that changes will not go about augmenting in unpredictable ways. This release provides new beautification rules that expose more fine grained control over how your code should be beautified.

### New! Language Specifics

Prettify has made previous global level rules available on a per-language basis. This means that you use these rules in all supported lexer (liquid, markup, style and script) modes.

- `commentIndent`
- `commentNewline`
- `preserveComment`

### New! Liquid Specific Rules

Liquid beautification rules are no longer coupled together with `markup` and instead are now defined on via a new`liquid` property. This new structure decouples and separates Liquid from markup allowing for more concise control for Liquid specific beautification.

<details>

<summary>
<strong> SEE CHANGES </strong>
</summary>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th width="500px">OLD CONFIGURATION </th>
<th width="500px"> NEW CONFIGURATION </th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```jsonc

// markup configuration no longer includes liquid
// specific formatting rules. Instead you define those
// rules on a  { "liquid": {} } property

{
  "markup": {

    // "delimiterTrims": "preserve",
    // "normalizeSpacing": true,
    // "lineBreakSeparator": "before",
    // "valueForce": "intent"

    "attributeCasing": "preserve",
    "attributeSort": false,
    "attributeSortList": [],
    "correct": false,
    "commentIndent": false,
    "commentNewline": false,
    "forceAttribute": true,
    "forceIndent": false,
    "forceLeadAttribute": false,
    "preserveAttributes": false,
    "preserveText": false,
    "ignoreScripts": false,
    "ignoreStyles": false,
    "quoteConvert": "none",
    "selfCloseSpace": true
  }
}
```

</td>
<td>

```jsonc
{
  "liquid": {
    "commentIndent": false,
    "commentNewline": false,
    "delimiterTrims": "preserve",
    "ignoreTagList": [],
    "lineBreakSeparator": "before",
    "normalizeSpacing": true,
    "preserveComment": false,
    "quoteConvert": "single",
    "valueForce": "intent"
  },
  "markup": {
    "attributeCasing": "preserve",
    "attributeSort": false,
    "attributeSortList": [],
    "commentIndent": false,
    "commentNewline": false,
    "correct": false,
    "forceAttribute": true,
    "forceLeadAttribute": false,
    "forceIndent": false,
    "ignoreScripts": false,
    "ignoreStyles": false,
    "preserveComment": false,
    "preserveAttributes": false,
    "preserveText": false,
    "quoteConvert": "none",
    "selfCloseSpace": true
  }
}
```

</td>

</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

</details>

### New! Liquid Rule: `ignoreTagList[]`

This is a `liquid` specific rule which accepts a list of tag names to excluded from formatting.

### New! Global Rule: `useTabs`

This is a **global** rule that replaces `indentChar` and will use `\t` tab indentations instead of single whitespace characters

# New! Schema Snippets

In version **3.2.0** the extension introduced `{% schema %}` tag completion and validation support. This release improves upon this essential feature now `{% schema %}` JSON supports snippet completion capabilities.

### Snippets and Tabstops

Schema JSON provided snippet completion which can be invoked with `CRTL`+`SPACE`. All section structures are available, with additional ENBF tab-stop support which converts `id` defined values to Upcase format Labels.

### Full IETF local support

This release now supports all IETF locale completion sturctures for labels and other translation based properties.

### Detailed and informative descriptions

Schema JSON code regions now provide detailed documentation reference in hover and completion descriptions This information is extracted directly from the Shopify documentation.

# Contributors

Special thanks to the great [@davidwarrington](https://github.com/davidwarrington) and [@MaxDesignFR](https://github.com/MaxDesignFR) for helping work through some of the decision making in this release.

#### Happy Holidays!

@panoply
