# v3.2.0 ~ vscode-liquid

Welcome to version **3.2.0** of the vscode liquid extension. This release ships various patches and brings supports for multiple development essentials, specifically those working with the Shopify Liquid variation (ie: Shopify Themes). Bug fixes and several [Prettify](https://github.com/panoply/prettify) improvements.

# Completions

In 3.1.x completions were made available but in order to keep daily users from overwhelm, they were only being be made available on certain trigger characters. As of 3.2.0, completions are now made available at various points with persisted item listings that adheres to the general structure of Liquid tokens

### Completion Triggers

As 3.2.0 object, tag and filter completions are now invoked both on existing triggers but also in accordance to cursor positions and surrounding characters and words. This means you'll have all Shopify objects at your fingertips at the appropriate places.

<details>
<summary>
&nbsp;&nbsp;<strong>Video Example</strong>
</summary>

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7041324/203686641-30bbc04a-65c2-4a2e-9306-9e5d98a356e6.mov

</details>

### Operator Completions

Liquid logical operator completions are now supported. Though frivolous in the grand scale of things, the feature is part of the Liquify supersede and has been made available as the Liquify release approaches. Operators help speed up the development process for you.

<details>
<summary>
&nbsp;&nbsp;<strong>Video Example</strong>
</summary>

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7041324/203685381-ca4d7dbf-40fb-4896-b3d3-ea280b285c3b.mov

</details>

### Schema Completions

Shopify theme developers now have completions provided in accordance with data contained within section file `{% schema %}` JSON tags. This new capability will use the `info` defined values as _descriptions_ and respects `block.type` scopes with support for both control flow tags.

<details>
<summary>
&nbsp;&nbsp;<strong>Video Example</strong>
</summary>

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7041324/203685872-17cd2b99-2b31-4d73-8900-243e3a50eb60.mov

</details>

<details>
<summary>
&nbsp;&nbsp;<strong>Code Example</strong>
</summary>

```liquid
{% for block in section.blocks %}

  {% if block.type == 'some_block_type' %}

    {% # only completions for the block type "some_block_type'"  will be made available %}

    {{  block.settings.  }}

  {% elsif block.type == 'another_block_type' %}

     {% # only completions for the block type "another_block_type'"  will be made available %}

    {{  block.settings.  }}

  {% endif %}

{% endfor %}
```

</details>

# Schema IntelliSense

This version supports schema tag intelliSense capabilities. This is achieved on the client until the Liquify supersede and handling moves to the server using LSP. The feature drastically improves productivity for developers working with the Shopify Liquid variation. Schema IntelliSense will transform the way developers write `{% schema %}` sections.

# Formatting

Version 3.2.0 ships a considerable amount of improvements for [Prettify](https://github.com/panoply/prettify) and exposes some additional beautification rules for more refined output. In previous versions of the extension, Prettify had some edge cases situations that needed ironing. Since the release of v3 and thanks to users taking time to report the defects, Prettify and beautification capabilities have improved, making it more stable and customizable. Prettify now provides 6 (new) additional formatting rules.

### New Markup Rules

These rules allow you to take control of your Liquid + Markup code styles.

- `delimiterTrims`
- `lineBreakSeparator`
- `normalizeSpacing`
- `valueForce`
- `ignoreScripts`
- `ignoreStyles`

### Removed Rules

The following rule was remove as `normalizeSpacing` now handles this capability.

- `delimiterSpacing`
